Initial draft for Python quickstart (#6028)
github/docs: content/codespaces/getting-started-with-codespaces/getting-started-with-your-python-project-in-codespaces.md

---
title: Getting started with your Python project in Codespaces
shortTitle: Getting started with your Python project
intro: 'You can create a custom dev container with all the tools necessary to get started with your Python project in {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}.'
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codespaces %}'
versions:
  free-pro-team: '*'
topics:
  - Codespaces
---

> ### Introduction

Reviewer: I want to ask about the header levels. From an accessibility standpoint shouldn't these start at level two (`##`)?

Author: I defer to our resident GitHub writer @timeyoutakeit for this! I'm working off a template so didn't change headers but Amy will know best :)

Reviewer 2: We use H3 headings in our docs as standard.

- You must have {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} enabled for your organization.

### Step 1: Open your project in a codespace

1. Navigate to your project's repository. Use the {% octicon "download" aria-label="The download icon" %} **Code** drop-down menu, and select **Open with Codespaces**. If you don’t see this option, your project isn’t available for {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}.
  
  ![Open with Codespaces button](/assets/images/help/codespaces/open-with-codespaces-button.png) 

2. To create a new codespace, click {% octicon "plus" aria-label="The plus icon" %} **New codespace**.
  ![New codespace button](/assets/images/help/codespaces/new-codespace-button.png)

When you create a codespace, your project is created on a remote VM that is dedicated to you. By default, the container for your codespace has many languages and runtimes including Node.js, JavaScript, Typescript, nvm, npm, and yarn. It also includes a common set of tools like git, wget, rsync, openssh, and nano. 

> 

Reviewer: Combine lines 31 & 33 into one paragraph?

You can customize your codespace by adjusting the amount of vCPUs and RAM], [adding dotfiles to personalize your environment](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/personalizing-codespaces-for-your-account), or by modifying the tools and scripts installed. 

{% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} uses a file called `devcontainer.json` to store configurations. On launch {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} uses the file to install any tools, dependencies, or other set up that might be needed for the project. For more information, see "[Configuring Codespaces for your project](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project)."

> The next section shows you how to modify your tools by adding a dev container.

Reviewer: Superfluous sentence as the header directly below this has the same text

### Step 2: Add a dev container to your codespace from a template  

> The default codespaces container will support running Python projects like [python-docs-hello-world](https://github.com/2percentsilk/python-docs-hello-world) out of the box. By setting up a custom container you can customize the tools and scripts that run as part of codespace creation and ensure a fully reproducible environment for all {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} users in your repository.

Reviewer: This doesn't really provide information about the types of projects it'll support out of the box. What specific features/options will/won't work in the default container? Will it run Jupyter? Anaconda? Common Python libraries?

Author: Good point - I can add some more clarity here!

> To set up your project with a custom container, you will need to use a `devcontainer.json` file to define the environment. In {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} you can add this either from a template or you can create your own. For more information on dev containers, see [Configuring your codespace](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To [set up your project with a custom container](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project), you will need to use a `devcontainer.json` file to define the environment. In {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} you can add this either from a template or you can create your own.. 
```

Trying to make the link flow better in the text

Reviewer 2: As part of our style, we use  "For more information" at the end of a paragraph.

> This example guides you through adding a `devcontainer.json` file from a template.

Reviewer: Superfluous? Or maybe roll this lead-in into the prior paragraph?

1. Access the command palette (`shift command P` / `shift control P`), then start typing "dev container". Click **Codespaces: Add Development Container Configuration Files...**

>   !["Codespaces: Add Development Container Configuration Files..." in the command palette](/assets/images/help/codespaces/add-prebuilt-container-command.png)

Reviewer: Numbering is off

> 3. For this example, click **Python 3**. In practice, you could select any container that’s specific to Python or a combination of tools such as Python 3 and PostgresSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For this example, click **Python 3**. If you need additional features you can select any container that’s specific to Python or a combination of tools such as Python 3 and PostgresSQL.
```

Avoiding the phrase "in practice" as it makes it feel like you're having them walk through something they wouldn't normally do. Love that you have the example at the end, so just rolling straight into it.

		"python.linting.enabled": true,
		"python.linting.pylintEnabled": true,
		"python.formatting.autopep8Path": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/autopep8",
		"python.formatting.blackPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/black",
		"python.formatting.yapfPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/yapf",
		"python.linting.banditPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/bandit",
		"python.linting.flake8Path": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/flake8",
		"python.linting.mypyPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/mypy",
		"python.linting.pycodestylePath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/pycodestyle",
		"python.linting.pydocstylePath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/pydocstyle",
		"python.linting.pylintPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/pylint"
	},

	// Add the IDs of extensions you want installed when the container is created.
	"extensions": [
		"ms-python.python"
	],

	// Use 'forwardPorts' to make a list of ports inside the container available locally.
	// "forwardPorts": [],

	// Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
	// "postCreateCommand": "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt",

	// Comment out connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/containers/non-root.
	"remoteUser": "vscode"
}
```

> - **Name** - We can name our dev container anything, this is just the default

Reviewer: Would this work better as a table?

# [Optional] If your pip requirements rarely change, uncomment this section to add them to the image.
# COPY requirements.txt /tmp/pip-tmp/
# RUN pip3 --disable-pip-version-check --no-cache-dir install -r /tmp/pip-tmp/requirements.txt \
#    && rm -rf /tmp/pip-tmp

# [Optional] Uncomment this section to install additional OS packages.
# RUN apt-get update && export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive \
#     && apt-get -y install --no-install-recommends <your-package-list-here>

# [Optional] Uncomment this line to install global node packages.
# RUN su vscode -c "source /usr/local/share/nvm/nvm.sh && npm install -g <your-package-here>" 2>&1
```

You can use the Dockerfile to add additional container layers to specify OS packages, node versions, or global packages we want included in our container.

### Step 3: Modify your devcontainer.json file 

With your dev container added and a basic understanding of what everything does, you can now make changes to configure it for your environment. In this example, you'll add properties to install npm when your codespace launches and make a list of ports inside the container available locally.

> 1. In the Explorer, select the `devcontainer.json` file from the tree to open it. You might have to expand the `.devcontainer` folder to see it. 

Reviewer: This would probably read better if we have them just open the *.devcontainer* folder rather than saying they might need to. If they already have it open they'll just skip the step. If they don't it reads a little funny saying they might need to.

3. To rebuild your container, access the command palette (`shift command P` / `shift control P`), then start typing "rebuild". Click **Codespaces: Rebuild Container**. 

  ![Rebuild container option](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-rebuild.png)

  Rebuilding inside your codespace ensures your changes work as expected before you commit the changes to the repository. If something does result in a failure, you’ll be placed in a codespace with a recovery container that you can rebuild from to keep adjusting your container.

### Step 4: Run your application

In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to installing a set of packages via pip3. With our dependencies now installed, we can run our application.

1. Run your start command in the terminal with `python -m flask run`.

2. When your project starts, you should see a toast in the bottom right corner with a prompt to connect to the port your project uses. 

  ![Port forwarding toast](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-port-toast.png)

### Step 5: Commit your changes

> Once you've made changes to your codespace, either new code or configuration changes, you'll want to commit your changes. Committing changes to your repository ensures that anyone else who creates a codespace from this repository has the same configuration. This also means that any customization you do, such as adding {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode %} extensions, will appear for all users.

Reviewer: From my own experience it's not overly clear that you still need to push to GitHub to save your changes back to the repository. It might be worth calling that out.

Reviewer 2: This is a great point! I'm also writing a new doc that covers source control that we'll eventually linked to instead of this content.

---
title: Getting started with your Python project in Codespaces
shortTitle: Getting started with your Python project
intro: 'You can create a custom dev container with all the tools necessary to get started with your Python project in {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}.'
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codespaces %}'
versions:
  free-pro-team: '*'
topics:
  - Codespaces
---

### Introduction

This guide shows you how to set up your Python project in {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}. It will take you through an example of opening your project in a codespace, and adding and modifying a dev container configuration from a template.

#### Prerequisites 

> - You should have an existing Python project in a repository on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom_the_website %}. If you don't have a project, you can try this tutorial with the following example: https://github.com/2percentsilk/python-docs-hello-world.

Author: I'm open to a more "real" sample if we can find one but we need to ensure it just "works" with the devcontainer definition we add (or works with a very minor update we can capture in this doc).

Reviewer 3: A really simple sample probably doesn't hurt because it gets the point across (how to add a Python dev container) and the user can apply the principles learned here to a more advanced project.

As an alternative, here's the project we used in our Learn module: https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-python-products.

Reviewer 4: We use [this one](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-python-products) for Remote-Containers tutorials which is a Flask app that just displays a list of products. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/686963/117152593-c9060980-ad7f-11eb-86b7-747ad5f8fd47.png)

To set up your project with a custom container, you will need to use a `devcontainer.json` file to define the environment. In {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} you can add this either from a template or you can create your own. For more information on dev containers, see [Configuring your codespace](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project). 

This example guides you through adding a `devcontainer.json` file from a template.

1. Access the command palette (`shift command P` / `shift control P`), then start typing "dev container". Click **Codespaces: Add Development Container Configuration Files...**
  !["Codespaces: Add Development Container Configuration Files..." in the command palette](/assets/images/help/codespaces/add-prebuilt-container-command.png)

> 3. For this example, click **Python 3**. In practice, you could select any container that’s specific to Node or a combination of tools such as Python 3 and PostgresSQL.

Reviewer 3: Was the use of Node intentional here? If so, why? 

```suggestion
3. For this example, click **Python 3**. In practice, you could select any container that’s specific to Python or a combination of tools such as Python 3 and PostgresSQL.
```

>   ![Select Python option from the list](/assets/images/help/codespaces/add-python-prebuilt-container.png)

Reviewer 3: This image doesn't show up.

4. Click the recommended version of Python.

>   ![Python version selection](/assets/images/help/codespaces/add-python-version.png)

Reviewer 3: This image also doesn't show up.

5. Accept the default option to add Node.js to your customization.

>   ![Add Node.js selection](/assets/images/help/codespaces/add-nodejs-selection.png)

Reviewer 3: Perhaps the images above don't show up because we're referencing a combination of Node and Python assets?

6. To rebuild your container, access the command palette (`shift command P` / `shift control P`), then start typing "rebuild". Click **Codespaces: Rebuild Container**. 
  ![Rebuild container option](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-rebuild.png)

#### Anatomy of your dev container

> Adding the Node.js dev container template adds a `.devcontainer` folder to the root of your project's repository with the following files:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adding the Python dev container template adds a `.devcontainer` folder to the root of your project's repository with the following files:
```

	"remoteUser": "vscode"
}
```

- **Name** - We can name our dev container anything, this is just the default
- **Build** - Our build properties
  - **Dockerfile** - In our build object, Dockerfile is a reference to the Dockerfile in the same folder that was the second file added to our project. This is the reference path.
  - **Args**
    - **Variant**: We only have one build argument here which is the node variant we want to use which is passed into our Dockerfile.
- **Settings** - These are {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode %} settings we wish to set
  - **Terminal.integrated.shell.linux** - While bash is the default here, we could use zsh for example by modifying this.
- **Extensions** - These are extensions included by default.
  - **ms-python.python** - The Microsoft Python extension provides rich support for the Python language (for all actively supported versions of the language: >=3.6), including features such as IntelliSense, linting, debugging, code navigation, code formatting, refactoring, variable explorer, test explorer, and more.
- **forwardPorts** - By default we can forward a port, like port 3000, but these will also forward automatically

> - **postCreateCommand** - If we want to run anything after we land in our codespace that’s not defined in our Dockerfile, like `pip3 install -r requirements`, we can do that here.

Author: Are there other common postCreateCommands a user might utilize here with their Python projects?

> - **remoteUser** - We’re running as the vscode user, but you can optionally set this to root

Author: Would a Python user ever set this as something besides vscode or root?

Reviewer 3: I think the [general guidance](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers-advanced#_creating-a-nonroot-user) is to leave as-is: 

> Running your application as a non-root user is recommended even in production (since it is more secure)

I don't recall seeing anything in our docs where we highlight a language-specific scenario for vscode versus root.

##### Dockerfile

```bash
# [Choice] Python version: 3, 3.9, 3.8, 3.7, 3.6
ARG VARIANT="3"
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/vscode/devcontainers/python:0-${VARIANT}

# [Option] Install Node.js
ARG INSTALL_NODE="true"
ARG NODE_VERSION="lts/*"
RUN if [ "${INSTALL_NODE}" = "true" ]; then su vscode -c "umask 0002 && . /usr/local/share/nvm/nvm.sh && nvm install ${NODE_VERSION} 2>&1"; fi

# [Optional] If your pip requirements rarely change, uncomment this section to add them to the image.
# COPY requirements.txt /tmp/pip-tmp/
# RUN pip3 --disable-pip-version-check --no-cache-dir install -r /tmp/pip-tmp/requirements.txt \
#    && rm -rf /tmp/pip-tmp

# [Optional] Uncomment this section to install additional OS packages.
# RUN apt-get update && export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive \
#     && apt-get -y install --no-install-recommends <your-package-list-here>

# [Optional] Uncomment this line to install global node packages.
# RUN su vscode -c "source /usr/local/share/nvm/nvm.sh && npm install -g <your-package-here>" 2>&1
```

> You can use the Dockerfile to add additional container layers to specify OS packages, node versions, or global packages we want included in our Dockerfile.

Reviewer 3: Maybe mention these things apply to the container (as a user, I might wonder, "Okay, so these packages are included in my Dockerfile. So what?")?

```suggestion
You can use the Dockerfile to add additional container layers to specify OS packages, node versions, or global packages we want included in our container.
```

### Step 3: Modify your devcontainer.json file 

With your dev container added and a basic understanding of what everything does, you can now make changes to configure it for your environment. In this example, you'll add properties to install npm when your codespace launches and make a list of ports inside the container available locally.

1. In the Explorer, select the `devcontainer.json` file from the tree to open it. You might have to expand the `.devcontainer` folder to see it. 

  !["Codespaces: Rebuild Container" in the command palette](/assets/images/help/codespaces/devcontainers-options.png)  

> 2. Update your `devcontainer.json` file after `extensions` to include the following:

Author: I would love to suggest an extra extension to add for them that we'd recommend.

Reviewer 3: Jupyter? Pylance? I believe this would also involve updating settings (i.e. setting Pylance as the language server).

Reviewer 4: In our sample, we add the [Jinja Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wholroyd.jinja) which provides highlighting for Jinja templates in the sample Flask project.

Reviewer: Love this idea. Maybe the [spellchecker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker) as well? [Flask snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cstrap.flask-snippets)?

  ```json{:copy}

>   "forwardPorts": [5000],

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason we're updating the ports here (assuming it's based on the update/rebuild example we used to give in remote-try-python)? Perhaps could provide some context on why you'd want to update this, what it's doing, you don't have to designate ports here because Codespaces takes care of dynamic port forwarding, but you can if you'd like.

In my most recent set of changes to remote-try-python, rather than updating `forwardPorts`, I guide users through updating `portsAttributes`.

  "postCreateCommand": "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt",
  ```

  For more information on `devcontainer.json` properties, see the [devcontainer.json reference](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/devcontainerjson-reference) on the Visual Studio Code docs.

3. To rebuild your container, access the command palette (`shift command P` / `shift control P`), then start typing "rebuild". Click **Codespaces: Rebuild Container**. 

  ![Rebuild container option](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-rebuild.png)

  Rebuilding inside your codespace ensures your changes work as expected before you commit the changes to the repository. If something does result in a failure, you’ll be placed in a codespace with a recovery container that you can rebuild from to keep adjusting your container.

### Step 4: Run your application

In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to installing a set of packages via pip3. With our dependencies now installed, we can run our application.

> 1. Run your start command in the terminal with `python -m flask run`.

Author: If we use a different repo, we'll need to update this.

2. When your project starts, you should see a toast in the bottom right corner with a prompt to connect to the port your project uses. 

>   ![Port forwarding toast](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-port-toast.png)

Reviewer 3: If you choose to update to port 5000, should probably update this screenshot to reflect it?

- You must have {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} enabled for your organization.

### Step 1: Open your project in a codespace

1. Navigate to your project's repository. Use the {% octicon "download" aria-label="The download icon" %} **Code** drop-down menu, and select **Open with Codespaces**. If you don’t see this option, your project isn’t available for {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}.
  
  ![Open with Codespaces button](/assets/images/help/codespaces/open-with-codespaces-button.png) 

2. To create a new codespace, click {% octicon "plus" aria-label="The plus icon" %} **New codespace**.
  ![New codespace button](/assets/images/help/codespaces/new-codespace-button.png)

When you create a codespace, your project is created on a remote VM that is dedicated to you. By default, the container for your codespace has many languages and runtimes including Node.js, JavaScript, Typescript, nvm, npm, and yarn. It also includes a common set of tools like git, wget, rsync, openssh, and nano. 

> You can customize your codespace by adjusting the amount of vCPUs and RAM], [adding dotfiles to personalize your environment](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/personalizing-codespaces-for-your-account), or by modifying the tools and scripts installed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize your codespace by adjusting the amount of vCPUs and RAM, [adding dotfiles to personalize your environment](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/personalizing-codespaces-for-your-account), or by modifying the tools and scripts installed. 
```

{% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} uses a file called `devcontainer.json` to store configurations. On launch {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} uses the file to install any tools, dependencies, or other set up that might be needed for the project. For more information, see "[Configuring Codespaces for your project](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project)."

> The next section shows you how to modify your tools by adding a dev container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Step 2: Add a dev container to your codespace from a template  

> The default codespaces container comes with the latest Python version, package managers (pip, Miniconda), and other common tools preinstalled. However, we encourage you to set up a custom container so you can tailor the tools and scripts that run as part of codespace creation to your project's needs and ensure a fully reproducible environment for all {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} users in your repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default codespaces container comes with the latest Python version, package managers (pip, Miniconda), and other common tools preinstalled. However, we recommend that you set up a custom container to define the tools and scripts that your project needs. This will ensure a fully reproducible environment for all {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} users in your repository.
```

> To set up your project with a custom container, you will need to use a `devcontainer.json` file to define the environment. In {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} you can add this either from a template or you can create your own. For more information on dev containers, see [Configuring your codespace](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up your project with a custom container, you will need to use a `devcontainer.json` file to define the environment. In {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %} you can add this either from a template or you can create your own. For more information on dev containers, see "[Configuring Codespaces for your project](/codespaces/setting-up-your-codespace/configuring-codespaces-for-your-project)." 
```

> This example guides you through adding a `devcontainer.json` file from a template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

		"python.linting.enabled": true,
		"python.linting.pylintEnabled": true,
		"python.formatting.autopep8Path": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/autopep8",
		"python.formatting.blackPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/black",
		"python.formatting.yapfPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/yapf",
		"python.linting.banditPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/bandit",
		"python.linting.flake8Path": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/flake8",
		"python.linting.mypyPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/mypy",
		"python.linting.pycodestylePath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/pycodestyle",
		"python.linting.pydocstylePath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/pydocstyle",
		"python.linting.pylintPath": "/usr/local/py-utils/bin/pylint"
	},

	// Add the IDs of extensions you want installed when the container is created.
	"extensions": [
		"ms-python.python",
	],

	// Use 'forwardPorts' to make a list of ports inside the container available locally.
	// "forwardPorts": [],

	// Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
	// "postCreateCommand": "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt",

	// Comment out connect as root instead. More info: https://aka.ms/vscode-remote/containers/non-root.
	"remoteUser": "vscode"
}
```

> - **Name** - We can name our dev container anything, this is just the default

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Name** - You can name our dev container anything, this is just the default
```

> - **Build** - Our build properties

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Build** - The build properties
```

>   - **Dockerfile** - In our build object, Dockerfile is a reference to the Dockerfile in the same folder that was the second file added to our project. This is the reference path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Dockerfile** - In the build object, `dockerfile` is a reference to the Dockerfile that was also added from the template
```

  - **Args**

>     - **Variant**: We only have one build argument here which is the node variant we want to use which is passed into our Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Variant**: This file only contains one build argument, which is the node variant we want to use that is passed into the Dockerfile.
```

> - **Settings** - These are {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode %} settings we wish to set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Settings** - These are {% data variables.product.prodname_vscode %} settings.
```

>   - **Terminal.integrated.shell.linux** - While bash is the default here, we could use zsh for example by modifying this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Terminal.integrated.shell.linux** - While bash is the default here, you could use other terminal shells by modifying this.
```

- **Extensions** - These are extensions included by default.
  - **ms-python.python** - The Microsoft Python extension provides rich support for the Python language (for all actively supported versions of the language: >=3.6), including features such as IntelliSense, linting, debugging, code navigation, code formatting, refactoring, variable explorer, test explorer, and more.

> - **forwardPorts** - By default we can forward a port, like port 3000, but these will also forward automatically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **forwardPorts** - Any ports listed here will be forwarded automatically.
```

> - **postCreateCommand** - If we want to run anything after we land in our codespace that’s not defined in our Dockerfile, like `pip3 install -r requirements`, we can do that here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **postCreateCommand** - If you want to run anything after you land in your codespace that’s not defined in the Dockerfile, like `pip3 install -r requirements`, you can do that here.
```

> - **remoteUser** - We’re running as the vscode user, but you can optionally set this to root

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **remoteUser** - By default, you’re running as the `vscode` user, but you can optionally set this to `root`.
```

#    && rm -rf /tmp/pip-tmp

# [Optional] Uncomment this section to install additional OS packages.
# RUN apt-get update && export DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive \
#     && apt-get -y install --no-install-recommends <your-package-list-here>

# [Optional] Uncomment this line to install global node packages.
# RUN su vscode -c "source /usr/local/share/nvm/nvm.sh && npm install -g <your-package-here>" 2>&1
```

You can use the Dockerfile to add additional container layers to specify OS packages, node versions, or global packages we want included in our container.

### Step 3: Modify your devcontainer.json file 

With your dev container added and a basic understanding of what everything does, you can now make changes to configure it for your environment. In this example, you'll add properties to install extensions and your project dependancies when your codespace launches.

1. In the Explorer, expand the `.devcontainer` folder and select the `devcontainer.json` file from the tree to open it. 

  !["Codespaces: Rebuild Container" in the command palette](/assets/images/help/codespaces/devcontainers-options.png)  

> 2. Update your the `extensions` list in your `devcontainer.json` file to add a few extensions that are useful when working with your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Update the `extensions` list in your `devcontainer.json` file to add a few extensions that are useful when working with your project.
```

   
  ```json{:copy} 
  "extensions": [
		  "ms-python.python",
		  "cstrap.flask-snippets",
		  "streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker",
	  ],
  ```

3. Uncomment the `postCreateCommand` to auto-install requirements as part of the codespaces setup process.

  ```json{:copy} 
  // Use 'postCreateCommand' to run commands after the container is created.
  "postCreateCommand": "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt",
  ```

4. To rebuild your container and apply the devcontainer.json changes, access the command palette (`shift command P` / `shift control P`), then start typing "rebuild". Click **Codespaces: Rebuild Container**. 

  ![Rebuild container option](/assets/images/help/codespaces/codespaces-rebuild.png)

  Rebuilding inside your codespace ensures your changes work as expected before you commit the changes to the repository. If something does result in a failure, you’ll be placed in a codespace with a recovery container that you can rebuild from to keep adjusting your container.

5. Check your changes were successfully applied by verifying the Code Spell Checker and Flask Snippet extensions were installed.
   

> ![Extensions list](/assets/images/help/codespaces/python-extensions.png) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![Extensions list](/assets/images/help/codespaces/python-extensions.png) 
```

   
### Step 4: Run your application

> In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to installing a set of packages via pip3. With our dependencies now installed, we can run our application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous section, you used the `postCreateCommand` to install a set of packages via pip3. With your dependencies now installed, you can run your application.
```

> 1. Run your application by pressing `F5` or entering `python -m flask run` in your terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run your application by pressing `F5` or entering `python -m flask run` in the codespace terminal.
```
